
landing page


Here, for every calming beach, there is a roar of the jungle. For every languid houseboat cruise, a thrilling snake-boat race. For every picturesque, nonchalant hill station, there is a culturally evocative city. For every aromatic spice field, a fragrant tea garden. For every therapeutic massage, the highs of toddy. And for every modest village, an equally vibrant festival. That’s Kerala for you, a land dealing in polar opposites in its own distinct, chilled-out way to put you in a state of trance.





home page

about kerala tourism

	
Kerala, a state situated on the tropical Malabar Coast of southwestern India, is one of the most popular tourist destinations in the country. 
Named as one of the ten paradises of the world by National Geographic Traveler, Kerala is famous especially for its ecotourism initiatives 
and beautiful backwaters.
National Geographic's Traveller magazine listed Kerala in the 'Ten Paradises of the World' and '50 must visit places of a lifetime'.
 Being a coastal region rich in greenery and with a unique culture, the state has attracted tourists from across the globe since time immemorial. 
But more often than not, tourists are finding themselves grappling with situations wherein they are unable to choose their destinations or 
struggle to get proper accommodation owing to shortage of local information and such other hassles.
The amazing destination, Kerala, is blessed with its scenic beauty wrapped with green nature. 
The 'God's Own Country' will be the best stop to be away from the hustles and bustles of your life. 
One who are at Kerala, can never miss the magical experience of the hill stations in Kerala. 
The hills, covered with mist will welcome you, the cool air will surround you and the mild atmosphere will make you experience
 the heaven on earth.

hill station tourism
Kerala tourism is increasing at a high alarming rate. We can see thousands of tourist flowing to Kerala yearly.
Known for the scenic beauty, natural beauty and other attractions, Kerala tourism never had to look back ever in its growth. 
Kerala is known for its densely forested mountain ranges comprising the Western Ghats and covering tropical evergreen, deciduous 
and semi-deciduous jungles that are home to some rare, exotic plant life and wildlife species. 
These hill stations and high range zones are the favourite haunts of nature and wildlife enthusiasts.
beach tourism
God’s Own Country of Kerala is a much sought after tourist destination of India. Kerala is not only known for its hill stations, 
backwaters and the scenic beauty but also for its beaches. After Goa, Kerala is said to have most of the beaches in India hence 
making it a beach destination.From the south of Kerala, at Thiruvananthapuram to the north at Kannur, Kerala has got umpteen numbers 
of beaches gracing its landscape. Some of the popular beaches in Kerala include Alappuzha Beach, Varkala Beach, Marari Beach, Kovalam,
 Shankumugham Beach etc.

backwater tourism
Kerala's backwaters is the most popular tourist attraction of Kerala which enhance the Kerala Tourism to a large scale.
 Backwater tourism is centered mostly around Alappuzha, Kollam and Kumarakom. Boat races held during festival seasons are also a
 major tourist attraction which is also a great promoter of Kerala tourism.Kerala tourism is rich with mirror still lagoons, picture book
 lakesides, palm fringed canals, shores bustling with glimpses from day to day life in the country side. Throughout the world, Kerala 
beaches are renowned for their breathtaking beauty. The backwaters have turned out to be a boon for the tourism industry, offering 
heavenly houseboat cruises to the visitors, reaping significant revenue to the Kerala tourism.

cultural tourism
The rich culture of Kerala makes Kerala such an important tourist destination in the country. Be it the monuments, festivals, music &
 dance forms, cuisine - they are all intrinsically related to Kerala's culture.Kerala, a lovely state of swaying palms and surf washed beaches is 
the home of several dance, music and arts forms some of which have originated in the region and some of which have been adopted from 
other areas and, over the centuries transformed into a local expression typical to Kerala. As quoted by Cosmopolitan, Kerala is one of the 
ten love nests in India.

home stay tourism
These homestays are literally home away from home, allowing you to get close with the host family and the community that lives in an area. 
Home stays provide a first hand experience for tourists to enjoy the rural life, the ethnic cuisine and local culture of the state.
The guests stay with the local people who play host to the tourists, eating with them and learning from them their culture and lifestyle. 
They also get a taste of the hospitality of the residents. This concept is mutually beneficial to both parties, contributing a healthy revenue to
 the industry.Tucked away in misty plantation hills, amidst cool coconut groves, circled by backwaters, by the side of sun drenched beaches 
or in villages with distinct characteristics; home stays in Kerala offer you one of the most favoured means by visitors to enjoy and experience 
the culture, lifestyle and flavours of the land and its people.

medical tourism
Kerala has an immense potential to develop the scope of health tourism in the country. It can become the hub and one of the most 
preferred destinations in the world for potential health tourists. Kerala is usually marketed as a health destination for its Allopathy, 
Ayurveda, Dental packages. Kerala has become an excellent brand by itself in thehealth tourism sector either because of its reputation in 
modern as well as traditional systems of treatment like ayurveda, yoga, meditation and homoeopathy or its cost effectiveness.
Kerala is popular amongst medical tourists for a number of reasons. Aside from providing high-quality medical care for low prices, 
the area is relatively easy to access and boasts a temperate climate year round. Visitors will be able to communicate easily with their 
doctors and the public and will have the finest amenities available, both in the hospital and in their hotels.

trissur
about
Thrissur is a city in the south Indian state of Kerala. It's known for sacred sites and colorful festivals. In the center is Vadakkumnathan Temple, dedicated to Lord Shiva and adorned with murals. The ornate, Indo-Gothic Our Lady of Dolours Basilica is nearby. To the north, Thiruvambady Temple is home to several elephants. Sakthan Thampuran Palace houses an archaeology museum with bronze statues and ancient coins.
punnathur kota
Not so far away from the Guruvayoor Temple lies one of the best Thrissur tourist places. An Elephant Sanctuary, the Punnathur Kotta was initially a palace belonging to a local ruler. It was then converted to a house of elephants and now has the highest number captive elephant, about 59 of them.
This is where these beasts are trained to participate in several festivals. Apart from this, the Punnathur Kotta also has a training centre for Elephant Riders (Mahouts), and temples dedicated to Lord Shiva and Bhagavati.
shakthan palace
Built after a rather Dutch style architecture, the Shakthan Thampuran Palace is a sight to behold. Finding its name in almost every list of Thrissur tourist places, the Shakthan Thampuran Palace was rebuilt in the place of Vadakkekara Palace in the year 1795 by the then King Ramavarma Thampuram of Cochin.

In the year 2005, the palace was converted into a museum that now showcases a number of relics and really old antiques. A favourite one amongst several art admirers, the two-storeyed complex has high roofs, thicker than usual walls, and Italian Marble on the floor, making it a place right out of a traveller’s dream.
vilangan kunnu
The oxygen jar of the city of Thrissur, Vilangan Kunnu is a hillock located near the city. From its top, one can get a fine view of the Thrissur city and Thrissur Kole Wetlands, making the place one of the most favourite picnic spots in the region.

Simply surreal, the experience from the 5-acre hilltop is only enhanced by the construction of an amusement park, where there are a number of rides that the kids can enjoy with the amazing view below.
athirapilly water falls
On the outskirts of the city at a distance of some 60 km, the Athirappilly waterfalls mark one of the best places to visit in Thrissur. Standing 80 ft tall and about 330 ft wide, these falls are the largest in the state of Kerala.

The majesty of this place can be understood by the fact that the falls are located on the Chalakudy River, that originates from the highest mountain in India outside of the Himalayas. A perfect place for a group outing, these falls are sometimes called the Niagra of India

chavakkad beach
One of the most fascinating and unexplored beaches of the state of Kerala, the Chavakkad Beach is popularly one amongst the most famous Thrissur Tourist places. Perfect for picnickers, honeymooners, and tourists of all sorts, the golden sand of the beach is what at the tracts people from all corners of the country.

The place where the beach is, there is a river that meets the sea, making an estuary. One of the best reasons for people to flock here is the colour of the waters, and the sight of fishermen going about their daily life. One can do a lot here, one of which is witnessing the amazing cleanliness of the area.
chettuva backwater

When you are in Thrissur, you must prepare yourself to see some of the most amazing beauties of the waters around. And one of the best places to witness the magnificence of that is the Chettuva Backwaters.

Starting from the Enamakkal Lake, the backwater runs through until ending in an estuary at the point where it meets the Arabian sea. One of the most important characters in this spot being known the world over are the mangroves here. Apart from that, there are several islands, a fort, and numerous sightings of migratory birds that make this place one of the best spots in Thrissur tourist places.


trivandrum

about
Thiruvananthapuram (or Trivandrum) is the capital of the southern Indian state of Kerala. It's distinguished by its British colonial architecture and many art galleries. It’s also home to Kuthira Malika (or Puthen Malika) Palace, adorned with carved horses and displaying collections related to the Travancore royal family, whose regional capital was here from the 18th–20th centuries.
ponmudi hills - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ponmudi
Locals in the capital city of Thiruvananthapuram will declare that a weekend drive to Ponmudi is among the best ways to spend time in the city. Families and friends alike are known to go on long drives up the winding paths for a view they insist rivals any other in the State. The slopes shrouded in mist fill one with a feeling of wonder and amazement. A large amount of rare flora and fauna can be seen here including mountain flowers, wild orchids and exotic butterflies.
secretariat - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kerala_Government_Secretariat
Kerala Government Secretariat, the nerve-centre of administration in the State, is completing 151 glorious years. This imposing mansion, constructed in a rich blend of Romano­ Dutch architectural style, remains a giant pillar of historical significance and monumental charm.
Shankumugham -https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shankumugham_Beach
Shankumugham Beach is a beach in Thiruvananthapuram district of Kerala, south India. The vast stretch of white sand and the serene atmosphere, away from the crowd in the city, provide all the ingredients for relaxation and for spending an ideal evening.

veli -http://wikimapia.org/11461857/Veli-Tourist-Village
As the name suggests, Veli is a tourist village that is popular as a picnic destination in Thiruvananthapuram district. The place features a large garden on the southern banks of Veli Lagoon; a floating bridge that connects this garden to the Veli Beach. 


Trivandrum Zoo Kerala
Thiruvananthapuram Zoo is one of the oldest zoos in India. It is said to have been established in the year 1857 by Maharaja of Travancore. In a modernization project of 1995, this zoo got a makeover and its old enclosures were replaced with spacious naturalistic enclosures.
akkulam Lake -https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aakkulam
Located on the banks of the Akkulam Lake, Akkulam Tourist Village boasts some of the most picturesque picnic spots in Southern Kerala. It is a lovely backwater destination with a calm and serene atmosphere. It is located 10 km from Thiruvananthapuram city and possesses numerous boating options. It has a well-equipped children’s park, a paddle pool and a swimming pool for adults.

wayanad

about
Wayanad is a rural district in Kerala state, southwest India. In the east, the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary is a lush, forested region with areas of high altitude, home to animals including Asiatic elephants, tigers, leopards and egrets. In the Ambukuthi Hills to the south, Edakkal Caves contain ancient petroglyphs, some dating back to the Neolithic age.

wayanad wild life sanctuary -https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wayanad_Wildlife_Sanctuary
Spread over a sprawling area of 344 sq. km., Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary is the personified version of famous wildlife sanctuaries in the South. The wildlife sanctuary is a small part of Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve. There are two parts of the wildlife sanctuary- Muthanga towards the east partnering with Tamil Nadu and Tholpetty in the north side bordering Karnataka.

thirunelli temples -https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thirunelli_Temple
Revered by Lord Vishnu, Thirunelli is an ancient temple, formed during the reign of Bhaskara Ravi Varma, a Chola king (962–1019 CE). This shrine is perhaps the only temple in the world, where devotees can perform all the rituals, related to life, starting from birth to death to after death. People from all over the world come to perform their ancestral rites.
banasura sagar dam -https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banasura_Sagar_Dam
Wayanad has many out-of-the-ordinary attractions in its kitty and the best amongst them is the Banasura Sagar Dam. The Banasura dam is recognized as the largest earthen dam in India and second largest of its kind in Asia. To one's astonishment, stacks of boulders and stones were used to make this extravagant dam.

soochipara falls
Soochipara Falls (Sentinel Rock Waterfalls) is perhaps the most picturesque spot located in the periphery of Wayanad. It is a treat for eyes to see the milky white stream of water making its way to the rivers by passing through the rocky cliffs and clinging trees. 
kanthanpara falls -https://www.keralatravelpal.com/kanthanpara.html
Imagine a cascade making it way from the area lying between two estates— this is Kanthanpara waterfalls for one and all. This scenic and quaint waterfall is a must visit place for every tourist on a trip to Wayanad. Length of the waterfall is 30 m and is divided into different tiers, making it look simply picture perfect. Locations of the surroundings and its picturesque waterfall make it the best place to campaign.

pakshipathalam -https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pakshi_Pathalam

Wayanad is one stop address for every trekker. One such spot in Wayanad that has captured the mindset of every tracker, ornithologists and nature lovers is the Pakshipathalam Bird Sanctuary. Here virgin forests, streams and steep hills together offer challenging avenues for trekking.
 
 
 idukki
about
 Idukki district is a densely forested, mountainous region in the south Indian state of Kerala. In the north, Anamudi mountain towers over Eravikulam National Park, where the rare, blue Neelakurinji flower blooms every 12 years. Nearby, Munnar is a hill station known for its sprawling tea plantations and Tea Museum. Farther south is the vast, curved Idukki Dam and Periyar National Park, a tiger and elephant reserve. 

 cheruthoni dam - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cheruthoni_Dam
 With spectacular views of the Cheruthoni and Idukki Dams, the Hill-view Park serves as a famous tourist destination of Idukki. One can also spot diverse wildlife in its belt natural habitat.
 arch dam - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Idukki_Dam
 Built across the Kuravan and Kurathi hills at a height of about 550 feet, the Idukki Arch Dam is an architectural genius, for the rugged terrain along which it is built. The natural beauty surrounding the dam is breath-taking.

 nadukani hill - http://wikimapia.org/11360490/nadukani-pass-churam
 Another hill station situated 25 km from Idukki, Nadukani offers a bewitching view of the mountains, Muvattupuzha River- a unique place in Kerala where three rivers meet, and many rare species of fauna are also found here.

 anakkara - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anakkara_(Idukki)

 A small village in the Idukki district, Anakarra is just about 50 sq. km in area. Situated approximately 18 km from Idduki wildlife sanctuary on the Kumily-Munnar state highway, this place is famous for its spice plantations and picturesque waterfalls.

 periyar park
 Famous for its Tiger reserves and thick vegetation, the Periyar National Park is a perfect place for nature buffs and wildlife lovers. However, the best way to explore this natural habitat is by safaris either on jeep or elephants.

 thommankuthu falls
 17 km off Thodupuzha lays this captivating Thommankuthu Falls, which is a seven step waterfall cascading down to form a pool. The location is best suited for trekking and rock climbing. Besides, facilities for many other activities such as boating, horse riding and fishing are also available.
 
 meesapulimala
 The second highest peak in South India, Meesapulimala is an ideal spot for trekking. The starting point of the trek is either Rhodovalley or Silent Valley. After trekking for about 8 km from Rhodovalley, one gets to witness the grasslands, wildlife, rainforests, and small waterfalls.

 malappuram

 about
 Malappuram is a city in the Indian state of Kerala, spread over an area of 58.20 km².The first municipality in the district formed in 1970, Malappuram serves as the administrative headquarters of Malappuram district. Divided into 40 electoral wards, the city has a population density of 1,742 per square kilometre. 

 bharathapuzha

 Flowing along a stretch of 209 km, Bharathapuzha River is also called River Nila. It is the second longest river in Kerala and provides shelter to 11 reservoirs with Malampuzha dam being the largest.

 valiya juma masjid -https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ponnani_Juma_Masjid

 One of the oldest mosques in Kerala, the Juma Masjid is an important pilgrimage site. It is situated on the Kozikhod-Nilmbur-Gudallur road and there are some mausoleums of the Malappuram martyrs located in the vicinity of the Mosque.

 nilambur teak museum -https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Teak_Museum
 Established in 1994, Nilambur Teak Museum is the first teak museum in the country. They have a collection of information in the form of articles and comprehensive documents that also mention the historic and artistic value of the wood.

 kottakkunnu -https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kottakkunnu

 Kottakkunnu is a mesmerising garden situated on a hill. Its beauty is often compared with the picturesque Marine Drive in Mumbai. The attraction has a Water Park, an Adventure Park, an Art Gallery, 16D cinema, an Open Air Theatre and a Balloon Park. These amusements make Kottakkunnu a perfect picnic spot.

 arya vaidya spectacular - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arya_Vaidya_Sala
 Arya Vidya Sala is a famous Ayurvedic health care centre in India. It was founded by Vaidyaratnam P. S Warrier in 1902 to promote traditional healing techniques for wholesome living. They now have a group of institutions with its headquarters in Malappuram for the practise and promotion of the ancient health care system.

 alathiyur hanuman temple - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alattiyur_Hanuman_Temple
 Alathiyoor Hanuman Temple is dedicated to Lord Hanuman. This is the only temple which has Lord Rama as the presiding deity but is dedicated to Lord Hanuman. The temple is believed to be established by Vashisht Muni around 3000 years ago. It is also believed that anyone making a wish here is blessed and all their dreams come true when they offer prayers.